Welcome to the December 2024 edition of J.W. Broadcasting.
The 144th annual meeting of the Watchtower Bible and Trek Society of Pennsylvania
was held on October 5, 2024.
The program featured encouraging spiritual talks and videos.
Please enjoy the first part of the annual meeting.
So what an eventful year it has been.
As expressed at Psalm 65 verse 11,
Jehovah has indeed crowned the year with goodness in a spiritual sense.
Since our last annual meeting, Jehovah has directed his people in many different ways,
reflecting his love and wisdom.
Of course, the most significant occurrence is that we've welcomed back thousands
who had been removed from the congregation.
And certainly there has been great joy in heaven, but here on earth as well.
We're delighted to have these dear ones back with us once again.
Wouldn't you agree?
Also, we were thrilled by this year's conventions,
featuring the good news according to Jesus, as we saw in the video Prelude.
And we just completed a global campaign to start Bible studies.
We see the growth that's taking place in the field.
And in other news, there's a new product in the Bethel Commissary, beard butter.
Not to be confused with the butter that you spread on your toast.
Yes, adjustments to our dress and grooming were also a highlight of the year.
Additionally, less than a year ago, the PVC opened for tours.
Not to be confused with polyvinyl chloride for all you plumbers out there.
No, we're talking about the PVC, the Patterson Visitors Center.
Here's an experience from the first century village.
A young girl was very impressed by the village and was trying to just understand, comprehend what she was seeing around her.
She noticed all the costume, detentance, walking around, demonstrating trades.
Or just speaking with the visitors, she asked her mother,
are these resurrected ones?
A young boy about 10 was with his family and enjoyed seeing a brother in costume demonstrating the wine press.
Well, the family continued walking through the marketplace and then into the courtyard.
But the little boy kept coming back. He kept coming back to the wine press.
And the costume detentant told him, you must really enjoy it here.
And he said, yes, then the boy paused and he said, I'm from the future.
He went on to show his phone to the attendant and show how he has the Bible on it.
The attendant explained, he'd seen others come through the village with such devices, but he only reads Hebrew.
The young brother looked at him and said, I have the Bible in many languages.
So the young brother put himself into the spirit of the time period and was quite affected by the impact of the Bible village.
So no doubt you too will enjoy your tour if you haven't already gone.
Even if it's a return visit, you'll still be delighted to see people from the first century.
Now, in years gone by, brother Russell Kerzen, many of you remember him.
He was sort of like the Bethel historian because he would relate specific events that occurred on that day to the morning worship chairman
who often would share them then with the Bethel family.
Well, today is October 5th.
So put on your thinking caps for a moment.
What note were the events in history have occurred on October 5th?
Does Mini, Mini, Tickle and Parsons ring a bell?
Yes, the handwriting on the wall appeared in Bell Shazard's palace on October 5th, 539 BCE, according to the Gregorian calendar.
But what about in our common era?
In the month of October 1924, Jehovah's people were busy distributing around the world a printed resolution entitled Ecclesiastics Indicted.
Now, this is a copy of that tract, life size.
Imagine distributing this tract to people in your territory or putting it in their doors.
The introduction to the resolution stated the following.
The indictment herein is laid chiefly against the clergy.
Showing that they have fallen before the temptations of Satan proved unfaithful to the Lord and to the responsibility resting upon them, and that this is the chief cause of the world's present deplorable state.
Strong words from the organization back in 1924.
Point number three of the resolution stated this.
That they, the clergy, have failed and refused to preach to the people the message of Messiah's kingdom and to point them to the evidences relating to his second presence.
And being unwilling to wait the Lord's due time to set up his kingdom and being ambitious to appear wise and great they have together with their co-conspirators claimed the ability to set up God's kingdom on earth without God.
And have endorsed the League of Nations and declared it to be the political expression of God's kingdom on earth.
They're by breaking their allegiance to the Lord Jesus Christ and declaring their allegiance to the devil, the God of evil.
And to this end, they have advocated and sanctified war, turned their church edifices into recruiting stations.
Does that sound like any of the churches in modern times?
Acted as recruiting officers for pay and preached men into the trenches there to suffer and die.
Quite a resolution ecclesiastics indicted.
Nothing has changed. The clergy still teach lies, foment war, and failed to preach the good news.
They're still riding on the back of the beast, too.
Well, back in 1924, is reported in the October 2024 study edition of the watchtower.
In the small town of Cleveland, Oklahoma, brother Frank Johnson finished distributing the tracks 20 minutes before he was to be picked up by other publishers.
Well, he couldn't just wait out in the open because men from the town were angered and they were seeking to find him.
So, brother Johnson decided to hide in a nearby church.
Finding it empty, he left copy of ecclesiastics indicted in the preacher's Bible and at each seat.
He exited the churches quickly as he had come. Well, he still had some time, so he visited two more churches following a similar pattern.
Frank rushed back to the spot where he was to be picked up.
He hid behind a fuel station, keeping an eye out for the men who were with him.
The men drove by but they didn't see him. As soon as they were gone, Frank's fellow preachers who had been witnessing nearby arrived to pick him up and they all drove off together.
Now, as they were leaving town, one of the brothers recalled, we passed by the three churches.
There were as many as 50 people standing out in front of each church.
Some of the people were reading the track, others were holding it up for the preacher to see.
Well, we had a very close call, he said, but we thanked Jehovah our God for his protection and the knowledge to outwit these enemies of the kingdom.
So, that's part of our theocratic history. Your theocratic history, you continue to preach with the same boldness. Those were exciting times, but we too are living and exciting times.
On October 5th, 2002, it was announced at the annual meeting that printing operations in the United States would be moved from Brooklyn to Walkill.
Amazing.
October 5th, 2013, what happened?
Likely, you recall Brother Jackson released the revised New World Translation in English. Amazing.
October 5th, 2019, what happened?
The Ramapo project was announced. Amazing. Jehovah continues to bless his organization.
Well, what will we hear today?
Calls to action, kind reminders, exciting announcements, praise to Jehovah?
Absolutely. And a few surprises along the way, so don't change the channel.
Ten years ago, at the annual meeting of 2014, we were introduced to the first epic episode of the series Become Jehovah's Friend.
And it was entitled, Jehovah will help you be bold.
Since that time, five additional epic episodes have been released, including Make Jehovah Happy.
Jehovah forgives. Does Jehovah answer prayers? Who should be my friend and you are precious to Jehovah?
How these videos have helped our young ones and really all of us to visualize Bible accounts and heavenly realities?
Well, we're happy to inform you that another epic episode will soon be ready for release, but not just yet.
But we can show you the trailer to increase anticipation. Its entitled Become Jehovah's Friend, The Greatest Act of Love.
Let's watch.
I miss her so much. Hey, soon we're having a memorial. And you have to come. It's the most important event.
He loves all of us. He loves you.
Soon, Jesus will resurrect people. And because he died for us, we can only live forever.
He's the greatest gift anyone could give us.
Mom, should we get ready for the memorial?
Let's do it. Yay!
As we all go home tonight, think about what Jesus' sacrifice means to you.
Certainly, we anticipate the release of the full length episode.
Well, the next part of our program is a symposium from three members of the governing body.
Each speaker will introduce the next.
But the first talk of our symposium will be given by the longest serving member of the governing body, Brother Garrett Lush.
The past July, he completed 30 years serving on the governing body.
Brother Lush will now discuss the theme, Our Privilege, to glorify Jehovah.
As you can see, this is Amira.
Did you look into Amira before you came here?
Perhaps judging by your neat and clean appearance, you obviously did.
Ancient mirrors were generally made of metal, such as bronze or copper, even silver and gold.
They had to be highly polished, but still did not have as fine reflecting surface as do glass mirrors.
This is why the Apostle Paul said in 1 Corinthians 13-12,
for now we see an easy outline by means of the metal mirror.
Probably only in the first century, gas mirrors were introduced.
In the scriptures, we find two figurative uses of the term mirror.
For instance, in James, chapter 1, verses 22 to 25, it says,
however, become doers of the word and not heroes only, deceiving yourselves with false reasoning.
For if anyone is a hero of the word and not a doer, this is like a man looking at his own face in Amira,
for he looks at himself and he goes away and immediately forgets what sort of person he is.
The one who peers into the perfect law that belongs to freedom and continues in it has become not a forgetful hero,
but a doer of the work, and he will be happy in what he does.
And the Apostle Paul showed that Christians reflect like mirrors the glory of Jehovah in their ministry.
In chapter 3, he wrote chapter 3 and verse 18,
and all of us, while we with unveiled faces, reflect like mirrors the glory of Jehovah,
but transformed into the same image from one degree of glory to another, exactly as it's done by Jehovah the Spirit.
And in chapter 6, verse 1, he says, therefore, since we have this ministry through the mercy that was shown us, we do not give up.
So God's word is compared to a mirror that we can use to examine ourselves.
On the other hand, also Christians themselves are compared to a mirror, a mirror that reflects Jehovah's glory.
So how do the Scriptures use the word glory?
Well, there are different types of glory.
In 1 Corinthians chapter 15, verses 40 to 44, it says, and there are heavenly bodies and earthly bodies,
but the glory of the heavenly bodies is one sort, and that of the earthly bodies is a different sort.
The glory of the sun is one sort, the glory of the moon is another, and the glory of the stars is another.
In fact, star differs from another star in glory, so it is with a resurrection of the dead.
It is shown in corruption, it's raised up in corruption.
It's shown in dishonor, it's raised up in glory.
It's shown in weakness, it's raised up in power.
It's shown a physical body, it's raised up a spiritual body.
Now, let's discuss five types of glory.
Of course, Jehovah has and deserves the highest degree of glory.
Then there's the glory of Jesus, which is second to the one of God.
In John 1, 14, it says, so the word became flesh and resided among us, and we had the view of His glory.
A glory that such as belongs to an only begotten son from the Father, and He was full of divine favor and truth.
John 1, 14.
The Bible shows that Jesus was given more glory after His resurrection than He had before He came to the earth.
It says, Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels, now crowned with glory,
and honor for having suffered death.
Hebrews 2 verse 9.
The third point, anointed Christians also have a measure of glory.
Jude 8 says that in the first century there were some that were speaking abusively of glorious ones.
Who were the glorious ones in the first century?
Anointed overseers.
They had a measure of glory when they lived on earth.
Number 4.
When taken to heaven, all anointed.
Not only anointed overseers will receive everlasting glory.
Second Timothy 2 10 says, quote,
For this reason I go on enduring all things for the sake of the chosen ones,
so that they too may obtain the salvation that is through Christ Jesus along with everlasting glory.
But we have today not a few, but many glorious ones sitting even in the audience right here.
How so?
Because the expression glorious ones refers also to elders with an earthly hope.
The watchdog in 1997, September 1, page 16 verse 14 says, quote,
Christian elders represent the glorious Jehovah God and His Son,
and as a result have certain glory conferred upon them.
True, they make mistakes as did Peter himself,
but the Scriptures urged members of the congregation to be submissive to such glorious ones.
End of quote.
And number 5.
There's the glorious good news, no matter what hope we have.
We glorify Jehovah through our preaching and teaching.
Second Corinthians 4, 3, and 4 says, in fact, the good news we declare is veiled.
It is veiled among those who are perishing among the God over the system of things,
has blinded the minds of the unbelievers so that the illumination of the glorious good news about the Christ might not shine through.
How can we all glorify Jehovah?
Not only overseers and other adults in the congregation reflect Jehovah's glory,
also children can do so.
Children, are you aware of it?
You too, yes, we all can glorify Jehovah.
How? In at least six ways.
For starting with 1.1, we glorify Him through our prayers,
and then also by singing kingdom songs.
Another point, we glorify Him by accumulating accurate knowledge.
Second Corinthians 4.6 therefore says,
for God is the one who said, let the light shine out of darkness,
and He is shown on our hearts to illuminate them with the glorious knowledge of God by the face of Christ.
Further, we glorify Jehovah by our Christian conduct.
Yes, we absorb this light of glorious knowledge of God,
and transform our lives according to it, it brings glory to Jehovah God.
Once conduct can cause also others to give glory to God.
Our conduct is not perfect, we all know that, still Jehovah accepts us.
However, that does not excuse us from keeping ourselves as mirrors in a clean and polished shape as much as we can.
In the dark, no mirror reflects anything except darkness.
A mirror does not have any glory or light in itself.
Similarly, we are aware that any glory we might have is just a reflection of God's glory.
First Peter chapter 12 says,
maintain your conduct fine among the nations so that when they accuse you of being wrongdoers,
they may be eyewitnesses of your fine works.
And as a result, glorify God in the day of His inspection.
Further, we glorify Him by doing good to others.
In Matthew 516, in the sermon on the Mount, Jesus Himself showed that preaching and teaching is not enough.
We need to do good things to others, aside from it.
We need to love our neighbors, including those in our workplace.
This may prompt people who are not witnesses of Jehovah to glorify God as Jesus put it.
And I quote, let your light shine before me so that they may see you of fine works.
So it's not just preaching, fine works, and give glory to your father who is in the heavens.
What's another way we all can reflect the glory of Jehovah like mirrors?
We glorify Him by our preaching and teaching.
We want to conduct many Bible studies and want to impart the glorious knowledge of God to others.
For God is the one who said, let the light shine out of darkness.
And He has shown on our hearts to illuminate them, says Paul in 2 Corinthians 4, 6.
And He continues, illuminate them with the glorious knowledge of God by the face of Christ.
Many of us who are older had the privilege of reflecting the glory of Jehovah for perhaps decades.
Jehovah has allowed us not only the privilege of proclaiming the message of the kingdom but also some have served as elders, pioneers, missionaries,
Bethelites, construction servants, circuit overseers or branch committee members.
These are ways that we have reflected the glory of Jehovah.
What a privilege we've had to do so, haven't we?
In spite of all these privileges, we maintain a humble spirit.
We appreciate that the privileges we have enjoyed are an undeserved kindness from Jehovah.
Having enjoyed so many privileges, what unique responsibility do we as older ones now have?
We must allow the next generation to come up so they too can enjoy unique privileges in glorifying Jehovah.
They are the next generation of like circuit overseers, Bethelites, missionaries, construction servants, branch committee members and so on.
We want them to have the marvelous privilege that we have enjoyed as well.
That means we must look for ways to teach them, to train them, to encourage them so that they may use their youth and strength and ability to glorify Jehovah.
What a privilege we have is older ones to train and teach younger ones.
With that in mind, it is a pleasure to announce that two additional brothers have been appointed to serve as members of the governing body.
Well, brothers, brothers of Jody, Jedily and Jacob Rump.
Both brothers are anointed Christians who have a long history of loyal service to Jehovah.
Brother Jedily began his full-time service in 1989 and Bethel service in 1990.
Brother Rump began his full-time service in 1995 and Bethel service in 2020.
Both brothers served as helpers to the service committee of the governing body for a while.
We thank our Heavenly Father Jehovah for raising up such faithful men to share in the work of the governing body.
We pray that Jehovah will reachly bless brothers Jedily and Rump and their wives.
We all worship our glorious God, Jehovah.
We have the glorious good news to spread.
Our whole life is for the glory of His praise.
Paul wrote in 1 Corinthians 1031, whether you are eating or drinking or doing anything else, do all things for God's glory.
Will you endeavor to reflect like a mirror Jehovah's glory by making the truth manifest in word and example?
What a privilege.
At the end of the millennium, faithful ones on earth will receive and display a measure of glory as perfect sons and daughters of Jehovah.
It says in Romans 821, the creation itself will also be set free from enslavement to corruption and have the glorious freedom of the children of God.
So keep polishing that mirror.
Look at the mirror of God's word every day and like a mirror reflect God's glory by what you say and do.
Appreciate your privilege to glorify Jehovah God, help young ones to take on privileges of service.
We trust your will and we wish you Jehovah's rich blessing in this endeavor.
So keep polishing, keep reflecting the light.
But how can you, our young ones, glorify Jehovah by serving, for instance, at Bethel and in theocratic construction?
What opportunities are available for younger ones today?
For the answers to these questions, let us now give our attention to Brother Jeffrey Winder, a member of the governing body who will share the next talk in this symposium entitled Opportunities to glorify Jehovah at Bethel and in theocratic construction.
Over 2,700 years ago, Jehovah God inspired the faithful man Isaiah to utter a prophecy that you and I are seeing fulfilled before our eyes.
It's found in Isaiah chapter 60. I invite you to turn there with me. Isaiah 60 and let's read together verse 22.
That verse says, the little one will become a thousand and the small one, a mighty nation.
I myself Jehovah will speed it up in its own time, like passengers in a car that is increasing in speed.
Do you sense the momentum of what Jehovah's organization is doing today?
Jehovah is accomplishing a tremendous work worldwide and all in connection with the kingdom preaching work.
And in the face of satanic attack and the wickedness of the last days, what Jehovah is accomplishing truly glorifies his name.
But because so much work is being done, there is a need for more workers to keep up with this work.
And in this talk, we're specifically going to talk about the needs at Bethel and in theocratic construction.
Well, what is the need? In Bethel, we have a constant need for spiritually qualified men and women who can help carry the load of the ever increasing and complex work.
And there is a particular need for young brothers who can apply to come to Bethel and be trained and in time qualified to serve as overseers or to take the lead in departments such as the service department or public information department, hospital information department and many others.
We need brothers who can in time qualify to serve on branch committees.
And even in branches where the Bethel family is small, we need young brothers to apply because the brothers and sisters who have been carrying the load for years, we love them, but they're getting older.
And they have a zeal for the work, but they recognize the need to train others so that Jehovah's work can continue.
And what about theocratic construction? Well, there too, there continues to be a need for spiritually qualified men and women who can help carry the tremendous amount of work that is taking place and facility construction worldwide.
And there too, we need spiritually qualified men who can be trained in time to take the lead as trade overseers to serve as construction committee members and care for other assignments.
But how much work is there to do in theocratic construction? Just to give you a glimpse, consider some of the needs for kingdom halls in a few countries in Africa.
Congo reports a deficit of nearly 1900 new kingdom halls. Zambia reports a need for over 900 new kingdom halls.
Mozambique and Angola each have a need for almost 500 kingdom halls. In a Nigeria, they have on their books a need for 2000 renovations of kingdom halls in addition to the new ones that they need.
And that's not to mention all the work taking place and major branch construction, the construction of remote translation offices, school facilities, assembly halls, and more.
Is there a need? Absolutely. Young ones, especially you young ones in your teens thinking about how you will use your life, can you get involved in the Bethel work and theocratic construction work?
Should you? If you do, what will your life be like? Would you live to regret it?
Or is it possible that it would lead to a most fulfilling life in this system of things?
Well, to help answer those questions, we invite you to watch the following video, which highlights comments from ones who, when they were young, made the decision to get involved in Bethel work or theocratic construction work.
Watching this video could be like looking at your life in fast forward. If you choose the course that these ones chose, how would that turn out for you?
Let's watch.
My name is Pavel. I serve at the Finland branch.
My name is Brad Berkwin. I'm serving in the Congo.
My name is Gina Slay.
My name is Christopher Slay. And we serve in the Nigeria branch.
My name is Karen Ferro. I live in Argentina.
I grew up in a sign language congregation because I have deaf parents. And when I saw the sign language department for the first time, I was so impressed by it.
And so I developed my first love for Bethel's service.
As a young man, there was a lot of discussions with my father. He wanted really what amounted to a normal life in this system.
I think the contrast for me was the joy of being a fellow worker with Jehovah in the preaching work and just to feel that close friendship with him.
I drifted from my goal and from serving Jehovah because I didn't have friends in the congregation. I only had friends in school.
I said, Jehovah, I want to start serving you. I want to give you my all. But tell me how. Give me a kick.
The first step I took to be able to serve was when I was 18. I filled out a form to make myself available.
There was a construction project in my circuit. So with my older sister and two friends, we started to work there.
It was relatively near us, so we supported the whole project.
I would say getting closer to happy pioneers. I realized I was in the truth. They are in the truth, but they are happier than me.
So I started regular auxiliary pioneering, then regular pioneering.
In our congregation, there was a special pioneer couple. Before that, they served at Bethel and therefore they had a lot of experience.
I asked them questions, so I want to serve in Bethel. What do I need to do? Tell me.
When I thought of Bethel, I knew single sisters were serving there. When I became aware of the construction work, I made myself available to increase my service.
Serving Jehovah, as full as you can, is not a matter of just drudgery and sacrifices in this system.
It's actually the best way of life we can live right now.
Taste and see that Jehovah is good. That will not fail.
Be constantly active in serving Jehovah. Sometimes it may seem that it's not much fun.
Perhaps it may seem boring. But actually, serving Jehovah brings so much joy and many blessings.
At Genesis 48-15, there it refers to Jehovah as being the true God who has been shepherding me during all my life until this day.
Jacob realized that Jehovah had taken him to a spiritual place that he would never have been able to go to on his own.
And I feel that Jehovah has done that with me.
These friends are serving all over the globe, aren't they? Some in their home ranch territories, others in foreign assignments.
But how did they describe their life? Was it drudgery and sacrifice and regret? No. Each one of them in one way or another said it is the best way of life that they could live.
And didn't you love what Karen said? Jehovah can take you to a spiritual place that you could never get to on your own.
Why do these ones find so much joy in their service?
Well, one reason is because they know they are filling a clear need in Jehovah's work.
And in this way, they're working shoulder to shoulder with God and Christ in a work that is important to them. And that brings meaning to their life.
A second reason why they find so much joy is highlighted for us in the book of Psalms.
I invite you to turn with me, please, to Psalm 145. And let's read together Psalm 145 in verse 2.
That verse says, all day long, I will praise you. I will praise your name forever and ever.
In Bethel and theocratic construction assignments, you have the opportunity to serve Jehovah all day, every day to praise Jehovah, to glorify him with all your strength.
So all day of every day of your life, you are engaged in theocratic activities. And that brings contentment and joy as well.
Did you notice how each one of them got started? In many cases, it was someone else in the congregation or in the circuit that encouraged them to get involved in local projects, to turn in their application and then their journey just continued from there.
Well, young brothers and sisters, we want you to be able to get involved in this exciting work as early as possible.
And so I have an exciting announcement to read. It reads this way.
We are pleased to inform you that the governing body has decided to reduce the minimum age requirement to enter Bethel service or to assist with theocratic construction projects from 19 to 18 years of age.
It goes on this adjustment is effective immediately. Why the change? Here are three reasons based on Bible principles. Reason number one.
Jehovah is blessing his people with growth. Paul stated in Colossians one six that the good news is bearing fruit and increasing in all the world. So it is also doing among you.
Today, we are thrilled to see how the good news continues to bear fruit and how much growth is taking place.
We also see Jehovah's spirit at work in you young ones and we want to open up to you the opportunity to enter special forms of service as soon as possible.
Reason number two. Our current and future needs require more young brothers to make themselves available for expanded theocratic service. Why?
Proverbs 2029 says that the glory of young men is their strength. There is a regular need for your help to handle important assignments.
And reason number three. We want you to benefit as soon as possible from additional theocratic training.
Paul said in Philippians three eight. What is more, I do indeed also consider all things to be lost on account of the excelling value of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord.
Our heartfelt desire is for as many of you young ones as possible to experience the unique and special training of excelling value that is available at Bethel and on theocratic construction projects.
It will accelerate your training and developing spiritual qualities equip you to handle more responsibility in the congregation and to address needs at Bethel and in the field.
So young ones, we encourage you to prayerfully consider whether you can make yourself available to enjoy the special privilege of service and isn't that exciting.
So truly young ones, we encourage you to take advantage of this opportunity, get glorified Jehovah by getting involved in Bethel work and theocratic construction as soon as possible.
Some of you, especially you sisters, might have noticed that some of our comments were weighted more toward encouraging the young brothers to apply.
And the reason for that is because of the need that we have for these brothers to take the lead and direct the work as they grow and receive training.
But we would be a miss if we did not acknowledge the hard work and self-sacrifice of the young sisters in the organization.
The fact is you're doing it, you're there, you are with us at Bethel, you are fully involved in theocratic construction around the world, many of you courageously accepting foreign assignments.
And we truly love you for your example and your life of self-sacrifice.
And now a word to the parents.
We know that you parents, you love your children and you want the very best future possible for your young ones.
And so we encourage you set goals of full-time service in front of your children and help them to achieve these goals.
And will you miss them if they should be called to Bethel or they go off on a kingdom hall assignment somewhere, of course you will.
But don't hold them back and insist that they stay home with you for fear of missing them.
You may be depriving them of the most fulfilling life.
But rather, can you be like Hannah?
Turn with me please to 1 Samuel 1, 1 Samuel 1, 28.
Jehovah blessed Hannah with his son and what did she say? What did she do?
1 Samuel 1, 28, she says, I in turn now lend him to Jehovah.
For all his days he is lent to Jehovah.
Can you lend your son or daughter to Jehovah?
Why do we say lend? It's because Jehovah will give them back to you.
In the new world you will have an eternity to spend with your family together in paradise.
But right now we have a work to do.
So we thank you for training your young ones to take the lead in full-time service.
Now a comment to our elders and circuit overseers.
What can you brothers do to help the young ones on the path to serving Jehovah full-time in Bethel and in theocratic construction?
Are you encouraging Bethel service?
Are you helping the young ones to learn how to get involved in local projects with their local design construction department?
School counselors are charting a path for our young ones in school.
Shouldn't we be doing the same?
To illustrate the impact that you brothers can have on the lives of these young ones.
A brother that works with us at Warwick told us his experience.
And he said when he was a teenager he wanted to go to Bethel but he hesitated because he wasn't sure if he could do it and he didn't know if there really was a need.
But his circuit overseers saw his potential and gave him a Bethel application and persisted in encouraging him until he could see the need and he turned in his application.
Well now he's been serving for some years, he's married now and he and his wife are making a fantastic contribution.
But are there ones like that in your congregation, in your circuit that maybe just on the fence and would benefit from some encouragement?
You can truly make a difference in how these young ones use their lives.
And finally a comment to the current generation who is carrying the load of oversight in Bethel and in theocratic construction.
We thank you for your years of service and to contemplate what Jehovah has been able to accomplish with your help is just fantastic.
And now we thank you for training the next generation so that the work can continue and Jehovah can continue to get his work done.
And we know that you desire to continue in the work. You have a zeal for the work and to feel productive and have accomplishment and feel valued.
Well that's very much connected to our joy. We understand that but as we get older we know that there is a need to train the next generation so Jehovah's work can continue.
And we know that you love Jehovah more than you do your personal privileges.
And truly we still want you involved. The young ones need your experience and your advice.
And young ones are wise to recognize how much they can benefit from your wisdom.
But we thank you for being ready to hand the job to these ones and then help them to succeed.
Well to conclude we'd like to just mention one more prophecy that we are seeing fulfilled before our eyes.
In this case it's in the book of Psalms and we invite you to turn to the 110th Psalm.
Psalm 110 in verse 3 says this.
Your people will offer themselves willingly on the day of your military force.
You have your company of young men just like do jobs.
Well as we've discussed Jehovah is speeding up the work and so therefore there is a need for more workers.
Jehovah is willing to train you and in trust you and Jehovah's organization is making arrangements for you to get involved as early as possible.
Well this verse reassures us that you young ones will respond. In fact you are responding. This verse is being fulfilled.
May you personally share in the fulfillment of this verse by taking advantage of opportunities to glorify Jehovah in Bethel and in theocratic construction.
But Bethel and theocratic construction is only part of the work. Is there continued to be a need for more workers in the field?
Well please give your attention to Brother Mark Sanderson who will speak on the theme opportunities to glorify Jehovah in the field.
It was 140 years ago in 1884 when Zion's Watchtower Track Society was legally incorporated.
Now I know there are many great beards here but I understand that none of you were present on that occasion.
That's reassuring.
It was just as Zechariah chapter 4 in verse 10 says. It was a day of small beginnings. Really just a handful.
But what has Jehovah accomplished in the field in the last 140 years?
Today we have nearly 9 million who are preaching the good news of God's kingdom in some 240 lands and with publications in more than 1000 languages.
Brothers aren't we moved to glorify Jehovah for what he has accomplished?
But how did we get to this point?
And what has been a major factor in the global expansion that Jehovah's organization has experienced?
And what opportunities are open in the field for our young ones? Please watch.
When you think of a missionary, perhaps you think of someone older who has been preaching for many years.
But of course many were very young when they started.
In fact in the mid to late 1940s 30% of the missionaries sent from Gilead were under 24 years of age.
They were young, energetic, full of life, willing to accept assignments around the world and they accomplished incredible things.
For instance in 1943 we were preaching in 54 lands and the number of publishers was still relatively small.
Jehovah blessed their hard work and zeal. In just five years the number of publishers worldwide nearly doubled.
By 1953 it had doubled again and the reach of Jehovah's organization expanded to 143 lands.
That 10 year burst of activity laid the foundation for Jehovah's organization to grow into what it has become today.
Over 8 million people spread across 239 lands reaching billions with the truth.
Young missionaries have directly contributed to the fulfillment of Jesus' words, preaching the good news of the kingdom for a witness to all the nations.
But over 80 years have passed. Perhaps you're thinking. Is there still a need for missionaries today?
What do the facts show? We see tremendous growth and potential for more growth around the world.
What has happened just during the past service year? Mozambique had an all-time peak in memorial attendance of well over 400,000.
That's more than four times the number of publishers in that land.
Angola averaged over 900 new missionaries a month. Excuse me, new publishers a month. That's a lot. Wow.
The Congo branch averaged more than 1300 new publishers a month.
And in Philippines, on average, more than 1000 were baptized every month.
Or brothers and sisters, in these places that are experiencing rapid growth, there is a huge need for more missionaries.
But there are also needs in other lands. Many countries have been blessed to have long-time missionaries who have done excellent work.
But many of those faithful ones have now passed on. Others have had to leave their assignments because of having to care for aging relatives or because of their own health challenges.
So here's the question. Is there still a need for missionaries today? The answer is absolutely yes.
There is a tremendous work to be accomplished in the world in missionary service. And enthusiastic and zealous young people are still being sent out every year to serve as missionaries.
For example, recently, the Service Committee sent 36 new missionaries to Madagascar and 10 to Latvia.
Well now, how do these young missionaries feel about their privilege of service? Let's watch.
Our main preaching need at the moment in Madagascar is training of new ones. We have new publishers who are not even baptized yet, have been progressive Bible studies.
So we were very happy to receive new young missionaries being assigned.
We now branch committee learned that we will get some new missionaries to Latvia. We were really thrilled.
We were three years special pioneers and later we received this letter. I was thinking, Latvia, what do you know about Latvia?
My legs was trembling, but then I say, it's exciting.
For me, it's still like a dream and sometimes I'm asking friends, is it really real?
I was expecting maybe somewhere in Africa and they said, no, no, you will have beautiful snow.
We really felt these new missionaries invigorating the field. Their enthusiasm is really pushing the work forward.
Now many publishers are more active in service and by any spirit is increasing.
I thought you was blessing in our assignment, especially by the children in our congregation. When they hug you, you feel like home and the language doesn't matter anymore.
I love my mission or the assignment because it has opened my eyes to something beautiful.
The ministry is simply amazing.
Being a missionary is something special, but on the other hand, it's quite a normal Christian life focused on the preaching and enjoy everyday life.
It's okay to be afraid, to have doubts, but give your whole world a chance.
Being a missionary is the biggest experience in my life.
My assignment strengthened my spirituality because now I know I'm not afraid of more difficult tasks.
I agree.
So we need many more young people to take up missionary service. Well, that raises the question, how do you become a missionary?
Well, the first step is to enter full-time service. And then, after you've been in full-time service for two years, what do you need to do?
You need to apply for the school for kingdom evangelizers. SKE is the door to missionary service.
You also need to have the spirit of Isaiah when he said, here I am, send me willing to go wherever the organization might assign you.
After you graduate SKE, you could receive an assignment to serve as a temporary special pioneer in your home country so that you can gain experience.
And if you do well in that assignment, you could receive an assignment to serve as a missionary in another country.
Missionary service is a thrilling opportunity to bring the good news to honest-hearted people in another part of the world.
We need young people who want to go and make disciples of people of all the nations.
Well, how old do you need to be to apply for the school for kingdom evangelizer?
Well, we're very pleased to announce today that the governing body has decided that young brothers and sisters, 21 years of age or older, may now apply to attend SKE.
Isn't that exciting and wonderful? But many of you young ones right now are serving where the need is greater.
Perhaps even in another country, that's wonderful. But we encourage you now to apply for the school for kingdom evangelizers.
You see, this will allow the organization to see where you could best be used in the worldwide field.
Young brothers and sisters, please, seize this wonderful opportunity.
But what about those of us who are a bit older? What can we do to help these young people?
Let's be generous in training them and in sharing with them our experience.
Let's help them to grow and encourage them to reach out for these wonderful opportunities to glorify Jehovah.
When I was just 19 years old, a brother invited me to attend my very first annual meeting. It was a special one.
The 100th anniversary of the Watchtower Bible and Track Society held in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
I was so excited, I thought I died and went to heaven.
I couldn't believe that that brother would invite me to attend when I was so young. But the encouragement from that experience has stayed with me right up until this very moment.
Brothers and sisters, what will you do? What will you do to encourage a young person to glorify Jehovah?
Certainly, Jehovah will bless you if you look for ways to do so.
Well, the preaching work is more urgent than ever before. Will you read with me Romans chapter 10, please?
Romans chapter 10 and verse 13.
It says, for everyone who calls on the name of Jehovah will be saved. However, how will they call on him if they have not put faith in him?
How in turn will they put faith in him about whom they have not heard? How in turn will they hear without someone to preach?
How in turn will they preach unless they have been sent out?
Just as it is written, how beautiful are the feet of those who declare good news of good things?
We need young ones, as verse 15 says, to be sent out to preach the good news. We need young ones to service pioneers and special pioneers and missionaries.
We need them to apply for the school for kingdom evangelizers.
So, Jehovah has accomplished an amazing work over these past 140 years. He's blessed the day of small beginnings.
But, brothers and sisters, the work is not over yet. Do you agree?
There are exciting opportunities for our beautiful young people. So, young ones, what will you do?
You can now apply for Bethel and construction service at age 18.
You can apply for the school for kingdom evangelizers at age 21.
Put yourself in Jehovah's hands. Make yourself available. You will never regret it.
And may we as older ones do everything in our power to encourage and train these young people.
Yes, as Brother Loch said, let's keep polishing those mirrors.
Let's keep looking for ways to expand our ministry and to glorify our wonderful, our amazing God, Jehovah.
What a thrilling symposium. We're delighted to have two new members of the governing body and we're delighted by the adjustments to the age requirements for Bethel service and for the school for kingdom evangelizers.
Did those changes come as a bit of a surprise to you?
Well, that's sort of related to the next talk on our program.
Brother Jeffrey Jackson will discuss the theme, don't be surprised by sudden changes. Brother Jeff, you have a attention.
Well, I'm sure we all agree with this fact. In recent years, there have been a lot of changes.
Even since the last annual meeting, there have been many changes.
Some of them, perhaps, are little surprising or may seem to be sudden.
But you know, brothers and sisters, when we look back on how these changes have come, we can see that Jehovah has gradually prepared us for each of these adjustments and changes.
Let's review some of the recent changes we've had.
What changes have we seen with regard to our understanding of Bible teachings?
At the 2021 annual meeting, we received an adjusted understanding of John 529.
It was explained that the resurrection of judgment will not be a judgment of condemnation.
Rather, it will be more like a period of probation.
The unrighteous mention at Acts 24-15 will have an opportunity to gain everlasting life.
But their names will not be written in the book of life at the time of their resurrection.
To have their names eventually written in that book, these ones will need to respond positively to the great educational work that will take place during the thousand-year reign.
Then, at the annual meeting in 2023, we gained enhanced insight into what we do know and what we don't know concerning Jehovah's judgments.
We learned that the door of opportunity for people to take a stand for the kingdom does not shut when the Great Tribulation starts with the destruction of false religion.
At that time, perhaps some will be like the Egyptians in Moses' day who took a last-minute stand and joined the Exodus of God's people.
At the same annual meeting, we adjusted our views with regard to Jehovah's judgments of those who died in the flood and those who were destroyed in Sodom and Gomorrah.
Also, at that annual meeting, an adjustment was made regarding the reporting of our time and activity and our preaching work.
Instead of focusing on reports, we tried to make good use of every opportunity to witness.
Then we received the 2024 governing body update, number two.
In that update, we saw the need to adjust how we interact with those who have committed serious sins and have been removed from the congregation.
What other major adjustments have we recently seen?
In our preaching work, the emphasis now is on studying Bible studies and making disciples, not on distributing literature.
To that end, the focus is on studying meaningful conversations, not just on using memorized presentations.
Were you surprised by these adjustments? Perhaps so.
But as we look back, we see how one adjustment and understanding gradually helped us with the next adjustment.
Isn't it true that gradually Jehovah has prepared us, and when we look back on it, we see how logical this training has been to refine our understanding?
But events in the world likewise have changed.
It's true sometimes in the world you have sudden changes, for example, the pandemic.
But oftentimes, change in the world is gradual.
Isn't it true with regard to the view of morality, homosexuality, abortion?
Even what's acceptable and not acceptable with regard to conduct?
All of that has happened gradually in the world.
And it's not until you look back and see how different the world is today with regard to those matters that we see that there have been a lot of changes.
But this can be dangerous, because as things gradually change, we may get used to gradual change and forget that there are some sudden changes about to occur.
Let's take our Bibles, please, and if you turn with me to the book of Luke chapter 21.
Now, this is an example of sudden change.
In Luke chapter 21, notice that in verse 34, the words of our Lord Jesus have recorded, and He said in verse 34,
but pay attention to yourselves that your hearts never become weighed down with overeating and heavy drinking and anxieties of life.
And suddenly, suddenly, that they be instantly, instantly upon you.
It's interesting to note that Jesus had already said that this day he was referring to would occur at a time that we don't think is likely.
So what lesson do we learn from what Jesus said?
It's a warning, isn't it, that we can't just sit back and think, well, things are gradually going to develop.
We know which way it's going, and maybe it's not going to happen yet.
We've got a little bit more wiggle room there with regard to the schedule, but you see that's dangerous thinking.
Now, what we're going to do is consider two examples of areas where perhaps we could be a little guilty with regard to that.
For example, our view with regard to the number of anointed ones remaining on the earth.
Now, for many years, what did we think? We thought, well, that number, we go down and down and down and down.
Now, I don't know about you, but me, when that report came out, just how many partakers.
And what were we thinking? Well, probably, maybe we didn't say it, but we think the number will go down, down, down, down, down, and there'll be just a couple of old guys in a wheelchair.
Who will get their reward? Well, I'm exaggerating, but that was sort of the feeling, wasn't it?
But now, what have we seen in recent years? Those numbers have gone up and up.
And not only that younger brothers have been appointed on the governing body.
Now, I know what you're all thinking to new ones, how old are they?
We know. You're not Googling now, but you will be.
But you see, we need to be careful about what we're thinking with regard to the number of anointed ones left on earth.
You see, 19 years ago, I was appointed on the governing body, even I thought I was too young.
Now, they tell me I'm not so young anymore. But do we see the point, what does the Bible actually tell us with regard to this?
Well, it doesn't say the number would just dwindle down to just having a few older ones left. No.
The great crowd of other sheep will be judged on the basis of how they deal with Christ's brothers.
So that means the faithful and discreet slave, as well as all the anointed throughout the earth, will continue to be active in doing the work and wanting and needing your support.
Ride up until the time that suddenly they will be reassigned.
And isn't that what Matthew 24 verse 31 says? There will be a gathering, the final gathering of the anointed from all different parts of the earth.
So for us to think, well, there's some new ones on the governing body, they don't look too old. Maybe we've got a little bit extra time.
Now, Jehovah is making sure that the faithful and discreet slave is continuing to work and is effective right up until that time of reassignment.
So that's one subject. The second subject we'd like to talk about is our view with regard to the start of the great tribulation, with the destruction of Babel on the Great.
When we look through the scriptures in Revelation chapter 16, what does it tell us that the waters would gradually dry up?
Yes, churches are losing support in some countries. For example, Europe. It wasn't that long ago that most nations in Europe were very religious, but now people are turning their backs on religion.
But at the same time, when we look at Africa and South America, we see that religion still has a strong influence.
So now, what could be that little voice in our mind saying? Well, yeah, we see it's going in the right direction, but maybe not just yet.
We've got a little bit more time left.
But again, we need to remember what the scriptures tell us. And if you turn with me this time, please, to Revelation chapter 17.
This is one of the chapters that describes the destruction of false religion, or in other words, when the Great Tribulation starts.
So let's read Revelation 17 and verse 17, and note please what it tells us.
For God put it into their hearts to carry out His thought. Yes, to carry out their one thought by giving the kingdom to the wild beast until the words of God will have been accomplished.
Now, what is this one thought? Well, up to now, we've said the one thought is their desire to turn on false religion.
And we can understand that because the context is talking about the destruction of false religion.
But you see, if you look back at that verse, what is the one thought?
Now, this means we have to adjust our understanding, another change.
What does it say? The one thought refers to the nations being willing to hand over power, their political power, to the scarlet colored wild beasts in the United Nations.
Let me repeat it, because you're in shock now, and you need to write this down.
The one thought refers to the nations being willing to hand over power to the United Nations. Now, why is that exciting?
Well, the fact that nations will eventually turn on religion really isn't that surprising, is it?
We're gradually, we've seen that happening. We see which way it's going.
But what about nations empowering the United Nations, handing over their personal political power so the United Nations has more power?
It has teeth, as it were, at the moments like a teethless, toothless organization, isn't it?
That seems unbelievable. No nation does that. But what is it that happens?
It is an act of God. Jehovah puts that one thought into the minds of the nations.
Yes, they will empower the United Nations so that the United Nations will be in a position to take action against false religion.
Now, this adjustment in understanding also means that we have to adjust our understanding of verses 12 and 13.
So if you're in Revelation 17, please let's look at verses 12 and 13.
The ten horns that you saw mean ten kings who have not yet received a kingdom.
But they do receive authority as kings for one hour with a wild beast.
These have one thought so they give their power and authority to the wild beast.
So up to now, we've assumed these ten kings which represent all the political powers and governments in the world at the moment,
that they did this during the last days by supporting first of all the League of Nations and then the United Nations.
But now, what do we understand this to be? See, we understand verse 17.
Well, there will come a time when all political powers on earth, which includes many who have never been part of the seven world powers,
they will see that they need to collectively pull their power by giving it to the United Nations to try and solve some of the problems in the world.
And they will rule, notice what does this say for one hour, just a short period of time.
So this newly-empowered United Nations from that time on will rule collectively for a short time but it will enable them to destroy false religion and fight against Jesus and Jehovah's people.
Now, isn't that exciting? But now, we're back to our subject again. You see, gradually things happen.
So we might say, well, yes, gradually I see battle on the greats losing influence in some places, maybe not yet.
But don't expect that you'll see governments gradually wanting to give over power. They don't want to do that.
It takes an act of God. Jehovah will put it into their hearts. This will occur with suddenness. Yes, then the Great Tribulation will start.
A sudden change, not something that happens gradually. So what have we learned in our discussion? Well, yes, some things change gradually.
But brothers and sisters, remember, there are some sudden things that are about to occur.
Let's remember the two things as a reminder. First of all, the remaining anointed ones will suddenly be taken to heaven while they are still very active.
The second one, Jehovah will suddenly move the nations to give their political power to the United Nations.
So what's the takeaway? Don't be complacent. Don't think, oh, this is going to gradually change.
No, some things won't gradually change. They will occur suddenly as acts of God.
So be ready and don't be surprised by sudden change.
Thank you, brother Jeff. You've given us much to think about. We'll probably have to watch that talk a few times to get all the points.
What a faith strengthening program. The second part of the annual meeting will be featured as the broadcast for next month.
Now it's time for our video postcard. Let's visit our brothers and sisters in Italy.
This is a land of rich history, vibrant culture and spectacular natural beauty, from Leicomo and the Dolomites in the north to the islands of Sicily and Sardinia in the south.
Christianity found an early foothold in Italy and spread rapidly.
Paul's journeys took him to Syracuse, Regium, known as the radio today, Rome and Puthiola, near Naples.
The preaching work began in modern-day Italy in 1891 when brother C. T. Russell visited the small town of Pina Rolo.
The first congregation of Jehovah's Witnesses was formed here in 1908. Meetings were first held at the homes of two sisters.
Just as in the first century, our brothers in the 20th century faced stiff opposition, the fastest government and the clergy suppressed the work of Jehovah's Witnesses for decades.
But our brothers persevered.
For example, in 1925, our brothers disguised the first assembly as a wedding in this hotel and brought a remedio cumineti and sister Albina Proti were actually married during the assembly.
Today, the Italy brand supports more than 250,000 publishers in Italy and the tiny Republic of San Marino, which is boarded by Italy on all sites.
Our brothers preached in ancient villages like Alberaballo, known for limestone dwellings called Trulli, and they publicly witnessed in iconic cities such as Florence and Venice.
To assist congregations in Rome and Milan in the ministry, a special initiative in 2023 encourage neighboring congregations to preach in those cities on weekends.
Almost 13,000 publishers participated, and 63 new Bible studies were started.
Many refugees have come to Italy from Africa, Asia and Eastern Europe.
To help our brothers learn to preach in a foreign language, the Italy brands organized 420 courses in 35 languages, including Amharic, Singalese, Tui and Ukrainian.
Of course, our postcards from Italy would not be complete without talking about food, a delightful and important element of Italian culture and tradition.
Along with its many wines, Italy is known for its regional cuisines, including pizzas, pastas and cheeses such as Parmesan and hand-made mozzarella.
The brothers and sisters from the Pina Role sued the congregation, sent us their warm love and greetings.
From the world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is JW Broadcasting.